.TH IRCIT 1 "16 February 1998"
.SH NAME
IRCIT \- IRC client for the Information Terrorists.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ircit
.RB [ \-h
.RB ]
.RB [ \-v
.RB ]
.RB [ \-r
.RB [ ttyn
.RB [ idx 
.RB ]]]
.RB [[ \-b
.RB ]
.RB [ \-p
.RB port]
.RB [ \-c
.RB channel]
.RB [ nickname
.RB ]
.RB [ server ]
.RB ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I IRCIT
program is a full screen,   ncurses-based   interface to the  Internet Relay Chat.
It supports most of the  functionality  normally expected in   the
.I IRC
enviroment, plus loads more.
.I IRCIT 
Ultimately aims  at  providing variety of secure and reliable internet-based 
communication channels through the implementation of both standard and proprietary protocols and all those little tools which come in between!
.SH OPTIONS
Options are grouped into related subgroups. Options defined in a subgroup
cannot be used with ones from other subgroups, they are simply ignored.
For expample, [
.BI \-v
.RB ]
is a standalone subgroup comprising only one option, you cannot compine 
it with, say, [
.BI -c 
.RB channel] 
which is defined in seperate subgroup. A subgroup is anything 
enclosed between two square-brackets ``[...]''. Subgroups also
mark optional components in the command line. This prologue was an
elaboration attempt at an otherwise   obvious concept.
.TP
.BI \-h
Supported command-line options.
.TP
.BI \-v
Current version, also displays the compilation time.
.TP
.B \-r "[ttyn [idx]]"
Reattach your detached client on ttyn, where n=0, 1, 2, ...
If you have more than one client running at the same time, you might
want to give the index number attached to that client, default is idx=0.
.TP
.B \-b 
Detatch from terminal and go daemon mode after initialization.
.TP
.B \-p "port number"
By default, 
.I IRCIT
uses port 6667 for it's connections, you can use this option to connect
on other port. This will not change the pre-defined default
port, if you want to set your client's default port to other value, 
use the
.I SET
command with 
.I DEFAULT_SERVER_PORT
.TP
.B \-c "channel"
Upon successful connection to the desired server, join
.B channel.
.IP 
You can define more than one channel if you seperate the indivisual
channles with the delimiter ','.
.TP
.B nick
The nickname by which you will be know in the IRC network. 
This will not set your pre-defined default nick; use
.B DEFAULT_NICK
with the
.B SET
command to accomplish this.
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.SS "The User Interface:"
.I IRCIT
is ncurses-based program, and as such, it uses ANSI graphics for its drawing
characters and colors. It features integrated windowing system
with many GUI constructs like menus, dialog boxes, lists and nice
visual color-editor.  Implemented luxuries include editing 
capabilities, tables, command-completion and many little details. 
To fully appreciate this pleasant enviroment,
you will need a terminal capable of both, ANSI graphics and colors, e.g
linux. 


.SS "IRCIT Commands:"
.I IRCIT
formal commands all start with the slash character '/'. Almost every
key on the keyboard has function of some sort, some are shortcuts to
certain command sequesnces, others provide functionality only 
accessable through the designated key.

.I IRCIT
command syntax is not compatible with IRCII's, although the actual
naming tends to be largely the same. Roughly speaking, you can
expect the same basic functionalty from 
.I IRCIT
commands as though they were issued on a standard IRCII client but
without any IRCII-specific switches. 
.I IRCIT 
has it's own command syntax, which is fairly consistant and
flexable.  No extensive on-line available, but the /HELP command
can provide some basic syntax hilights.

.SH FILES
.I IRCIT 
will survive quite well without any configuration files, nevertheless
you might find it usefull to maintain a configuration file to hold 
whatever
.I IRCIT
allows you to define. A file called
.B ircit.conf
will be first consulted in 
.B $HOME/.ircit/
if that fails, your current working directory will be searched instead.
Please note, some functionality is likely to be lost if the default 
working directory,
.B $HOME/.ircit/
, is not present.

The file has straightforward syntax, and is logically devided into 
.I SECTIONS
into which, various user-defined preferences could be maintained. 
You can selectivly save or rehash
.I SECTIONS 
of the file from within the client. 


.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.I IRCIT
doesn't require any special enviroment variables to be defiened other
than the ones normally found in any sane system. But it understands the
ones usually defined by IRCII clients users, but they don't have priority; they
only consulted when the situation is desperate. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
irc(1),
ircd(8)
.SH BUGS
If you encounter bugs, you are encourged to contact the author
with useable details.
.SH AUTHOR
.I IRCIT
was written and is currently maintained by Ayman Akt (ayman@POBoxes.com).
.\" end of man page
